Privacy Friendly Circuit Trainer is an Android App that supports the user during their circuit training session. It provides a configurable set of timers for the exercises and the rest phases as well as multiple other features.

Workout Timer
After configuring the set of timers in the main menu you can start the workout routine by pressing the start button. The workout view has animations and sound output features which can be turned on and off inside the settings menu.

Motivation Alert
The app can show you motivation alerts to remind you of planned workout sessions. You can define the time of day and the notification texts inside the settings menu.

Block Periodization
When scheduling the timers you may also choose the block periodization feature. This feature allows you to configure longer, separate breaks in between the exercises. This way the workout can be split into multiple high intensity workout cycles.

Workout History
The app can collect statistics about your performed workout sessions. The collected data comprises of the time spend working out and the calories burnt while exercising. The accuracy of the calories calculation can be improved by configuring the necessary user data in the settings menu. The collection of this data can be deleted as well as turned on and off inside the settings menu.

Exercise Sets
The app allows you to create your own Exercise Sets for the circuit training. Therefore you can combine your own exercises to exercise sets. The image assigned to an exercise is displayed during the workout. In addition, the exercise sets can be repeated during a workout. For this you can set the number of rounds before starting the workout.


How does Privacy Friendly Circuit Trainer differ from other similar apps?

1. No permissions
Privacy Friendly Circuit Trainer does not require any permissions. The selection of images is done by a task to the gallery so the app does not have any access to the device's storage without the user's control and interaction.

2. No advertisement
Many other free apps in the Google Play Store dazzle annoying advertising and also shortens battery life.

Privacy Friendly Circuit Training is part of the Privacy Friendly Apps group developed by the research group SECUSO at Technische Universität Darmstadt. More information at: https://secuso.org/pfa

You can reach us via
Twitter - @SECUSOResearch https://twitter.com/secusoresearch
Mastodon - @SECUSO_Research@bawü.social https://xn--baw-joa.social/@SECUSO_Research/
Job opening - https://secuso.aifb.kit.edu/english/Job_Offers_1557.php